Remove deprecated funcs and document deprecation lifecycle (#967)
neuroinformatics-unit/movement: docs/source/community/contributing.md

The addition of a GitHub tag triggers the package's deployment to PyPI.
The version number is automatically determined from the latest tag on the _main_ branch.

### Deprecation lifecycle

When a public function is superseded by a new one, or completely removed,

> we issue a deprecation warning rather than deleting it immediately.

Reviewer: For consistent use of "remove" and "emit" (instead of a mix of delete / remove; issue / emit)
Should also cover anything that's public. Update the other mentions of "function"
```suggestion
When a public API element (function, method, class, etc.) is superseded
or slated for removal, we emit a deprecation warning rather than
removing it immediately.
```

Author: Good point. I've now updated this whole section to use more general language, like 'API element' and 'callable'. The example is still of a function, but it's marked as such ("For example, to deprecate a function:")

This gives users time to migrate.

#### 1. Mark the function as deprecated

Add a {func}`warnings.warn` call at the top of the function body, with

> ``DeprecationWarning`` as the category:

Reviewer: this line feels a bit disconnected with the rest of the key points. perhaps this section could begin with
<the example code>
- add warnings.warn
- add deprecated directive (also explain that version should be the current version(?) and where we can find this
- ...

Author: I've restructured this part to lead with the example code first, and then the bullet points follow with more explanation.

```python
import warnings

def old_function(...):
    """Do something.

    .. deprecated:: <version>
        This function is deprecated and will be removed in a future
        release.
        Use :func:`new_function` instead.
    """
    warnings.warn(
        "`old_function` is deprecated and will be removed in a future "
        "release. Please use `new_function` instead.",
        DeprecationWarning,
        stacklevel=2,
    )
    # keep rest as is or delegate to the new implementation
```

Key points:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Add the ``.. deprecated::`` directive to the docstring so the
  deprecation appears in the API reference.
- The warning message should name the deprecated function and the

>   recommended replacement(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The warning message should state which API is deprecated and
  suggest the appropriate replacement(s).
```

- The body of the deprecated function should still work as before.
  Depending on context, it may delegate to the new implementation or
  keep its original logic; the important thing is that existing user

>   code continues to produce correct results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keep the API's behaviour intact. It may delegate to the new
  implementation or retain its original logic; the important point is
  that existing user code continues to produce correct results.
```

> Any existing tests that call the deprecated function will now emit a

Reviewer: also not sure if you want to stick to the "code example first, description later" structure; i remember this was the case when writing the add loaders guide

Author: Actually yes, thanks for the reminder. I've restructured this section to lead with the code example (for how to mark a function as deprecated).

But for the filterwarnings case specifically, I'll keep the order as is, otherwise readers have no idea what is being done by this code snippet.

> ``DeprecationWarning``. Add a ``filterwarnings`` marker to those tests

Reviewer: link to the @pytest.mark.filterwarnings mark docs? https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/reference/reference.html#pytest-mark-filterwarnings-ref)

> so they don't pollute output during the maintenance period:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so they do not clutter the test output during the deprecation window:
```

```python
@pytest.mark.filterwarnings("ignore:.*is deprecated:DeprecationWarning")
def test_old_function(...):
    ...
```

#### 2. Test the deprecation

Add a parametrised case to ``tests/test_unit/test_deprecations.py``.
Each case specifies the deprecated callable, mock inputs, a patch
context to prevent real work, and strings to look for in the warning
message. See the docstring and git history of that file for concrete
examples.

Where appropriate, you may also add backwards-compatibility tests that
verify the deprecated function produces equivalent results to the new
one. These are especially useful when the old and new implementations
differ in structure but should agree on output.

#### 3. Remove the deprecated function

After at least one minor release, the deprecated function can be
removed in a follow-up PR. When removing:

- Delete the function and its imports, including those in
  ``__init__.py`` if applicable.
- Remove any existing tests for the deprecated function (the ones

>   with ``filterwarnings`` markers), including any

Reviewer: we also use filterwarnings for other warnings (e.g. UserWarning) , better search term would be DeprecationWarning

  backwards-compatibility tests.
- Remove the corresponding test case from ``test_deprecations.py``.

:::{note}
Both the release that introduces the deprecation and the release that

> removes the function should mention the change in the release notes,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
removes the API must mention the change in the release notes,
```
